So we're getting started with the defining this effect, we're filtering for specific actions
but of course the question is, what do we want to do with these actions then or with the action that
we are reacting to? So is in this case to the login start action.
Well the login start action should yield us some specific information that we need for logging in and
for that,
we need to create a new action class here in the auth actions file,
the login start class which also implements action,
that of course has our readonly type which is login start but it also needs a payload
because for logging in, we need what?
Well, an e-mail and a password, that is what we currently use in the auth service for login. Here,
if you check login, we get e-mail and a password.
So in the auth actions, here
I also expect to have a payload which essentially is of type object where we have an e-mail key which
is a string and a password key which is a string.
So this is how such an action should look like, with that defined here,
we can go back to the auth effects and now add another rxjs/operator as a second step.
First step is that we're filtering,
next step now can be a switchMap which allows us, which is imported from rxjs/operators, which
allows us to create a new observable by taking another observable's data.
So here we get our auth data and we know since we're filtering for the login start action, that the type
of this will be auth actions login start, now referring to the class.
So this is our type of data and in switchMap, we now can return a new observable and the new observable
I want to return here of course uses the Angular HTTP client to send our login request,
so just what we previously did in the login function in our service.
So we can actually copy this entire code snippet here from the login method here in the auth service
and add it to auth effects in this switchMap here.
Now important though, this of course requires us to inject the HTTP service,
we also need to get access to the auth response data interface, to the environment constant for getting
our Firebase API key and we need to extract e-mail and password.
Now let's start with extracting e-mail and password because that is of course part of our auth data payload,
so here we can just access auth data payload e-mail and auth data payload password.
Next, let's inject the Angular HTTP client,
so let's go down to the constructor and call private or add private HTTP and referred to the HTTP
client imported from @angular/common/http.
Let's also get access to the environment constant here which we can find in our environments
folder and there in the environment file and regarding the auth response data,
that's an interface I'm defining in the auth service. Let's actually copy it from there, not remove it
there right now because we still need it for signing up, we will remove it in the future and let's move
it over to auth effects as well.
So now we have our auth effect for logging in but this effect won't work for a couple of reasons actually.
First of all, an effect by default always should return a new action at the end
once it's done because this effect itself doesn't change the state right, it just executes some code,
nowhere do we touch our reducer or our NgRx state and that's how it should be. But typically once
an effect is done, you want to edit the state and that's the same here for logging in.
Once we did login, if we did succeed, I of course want to dispatch my login action so that the reducer
can take over and create that user object.
So therefore, we need to return a new action here at the end of our effects chain here
and in addition, we also need to add a special decorator to this auth login property here to turn it into
an effect @ngrx/effects is able to pick up later, that is the @effect decorator and effect
simply is imported from @ngrx/effects.
This is required for @ngrx/effects to pick up this property as an effect,
so basically as an effect it wants to handle, it wants to subscribe to and so on. And the next step
as I mentioned is of course then also that we return a new action here at the end
and since we're in an observable chain, returning a new action simply means that we have to return
a new observable.
Now of course I only want to log the user in if we haven't got an error from this HTTP request
right,
that's the same logic here,
the auth service for logging in, there
we send this request,
we catch errors to handle errors and only if we get no error
we continue here and then we handle the authentication.
I want to do the same here with auth effects but the logic has to be a bit different.
It's important to understand that an observable completes whenever an error is thrown,
therefore in the auth service, whenever this here yields an error, catch error kicks in and this code never
executes and this entire observable dies, which is no problem because when we call login again, a new
observable is created.
Now it's a bit differently for effects, effects here
this is an ongoing observable stream,
this must never die, at least not as long as our application is running and therefore, if we would catch
an error here by adding catch error here as a next step after switchMap, which we could do because switch
map returns an HTTP observable and this could certainly throw an error, if we add the catch error like
this or even if we don't
add it, if this throws an error, this entire observable stream will die which means that trying to login
again will simply not work because this here will never react to another dispatched login start event
because this entire observable is dead and therefore, errors have to be handled on a different level.
Here,
we're creating a new observable and with switchMap,
I am returning that new observable here, right?
We can call pipe on that inner observable too, previously we hadn't done this but now we need to do it here.
This allows us to add operators on this inner observable, not on the overall observable chain
and here we can now pipe catch error, which you need to import by the way from rxjs/operators
and also pipe map which will execute if we have no error
and that also needs to be imported from rxjs/operators. Now catch error of course receives any error
we might be getting
and now here, we can run our error handling code
but most importantly and that is super important to understand, here
we have to return a non-error observable so that our overall stream doesn't die and since switchMap
returns the result of this inner observable stream as a new observable to the outer chain here, returning
a non-error observable in catch error is crucial,
so that this erroneous
observable in here still yields a non-error observable which is picked up by switchMap which is then
returned to this overall stream, to this overall observable chain.
So in here, I will therefore use auth which is imported from RxJS which is simply a utility function
for creating a new observable, a new observable without an error,
I will call auth in here to return a new observable. Now the same inside of map,
this by default wouldn't have an error but of course here we also must not create an error,
we instead have to return a non-erroneous observable here as well. Now here inside of map,
what do I expect?
Let's have a look at the auth service,
we should get our response data here and therefore let's go back to auth effects,
we get response data and ultimately here,
I also once use auth to create a new observable.
The question now just is, what should be inside of these new observables
we're creating here?